---
layout: post
title:  "2022 Lookahead"
subtitle: "Some recommendations for the year ahead"
date:   2021-12-29 08:30:20 -0500
categories: [Markets, Trading, Investing]
---

Given how credit tightened on a rate-of-change basis in the second half of 2021 coinciding with the shift in posture of major central banks, it is difficult to be constructive on risk in 2022. I think it may be best to take things asset class-by-asset class and outline some views. 

## Rates
With central banks now openly hawkish and the markets prepping for hikes from the Fed as early as March, following the completion of tapering, I'm getting bullish on fixed income, in particular the front-end. That may sound like backwards reasoning, but you can put me more toward the 'potential policy-mistake' camp at this point. I worry the Fed really missed the best window to tighten, which would have really been November 2020 through May 2021 and are now rapidly trying to catch up when they could potentially--key word, potentially--be somewhat out of phase with the rate-of-change of global growth. However,I don't think it's time to load up on reds through blues _just yet_. For now, I think the market will continue to respect any further hawkish central bank rhetoric by pricing in hike premium. Any sharp sell-offs in fixed income, however, should be seen as a distressing signal--I'd take it as further indication of rapidly tightening liquidity and would represent potentially great risk-reward to buy really anywhere across the curve,

Now I said last quarter that that the mistake-o-meter was potentially at a 2011 scale at worst, likely around a late 2015, and for now, I'd say that should continue to be the base case. But with the accelation of the taper and 6 rate hikes in 2022-2023 getting included in the December SEP guidance, I'm starting to get the worry that this could rapidly chage the outlook to zoom pass a 2011 scale risk-off, and potentially push into Q42018 territory, to even somewhere on the level of a summer 2000, which would take it from a cyclical slowdown into a recessionary-zone. 

There are lots of ways to build a macro framework, but in macro-frameworks 101, they teach that it's all about rates-of-change, and not about absolute levels. And the outlook on the rate of globally-synchronized tightening from G7 central banks is enough to give strong pause--especially given that the most important non-G7 country, China, is already in the midst of a deep slowdown.

Now the PBoC recently cut RRR and has vowed more policy support into next year, but I just don't know if it's going to be aggresive enough to offset tightening from the G7 side. A key indicator is likely if Chinese fixed income outperforms on further PBoC easing but doesn't quite find it's way into Asian equity strength.

So my playbook would be to be patient adding to the long-side in fixed-income. I think a bull run in rates would be a steepener, with any and all hikes in the 2023-2025 range getting quickly taken back from the curve. And for a high convexity yolo-punt, if the retraction of credit accelerates from here, I think 2024-2025 NIRP calls are in play for a recessionary trade. The FOMC said post-COVID that NIRP is out-of-bounds for now. But if the economic picture starts to rapidly deteriote in late 2022, the market may very well take those forwards into NIRP-territory. Have I looked at implied vols and general risk-reward pricing in any NIRP Eurodollar expressions? No. But really a NIRP yolo punt--say the Z4 100.00/100.50 call spread for example, is really about the story you could tell is it magically works. "I eliminated everything in my book and went max long NIRP calls, then I just sat and waited and didn't make another trade for a 12 months and made a life-changing bonus." And sometimes, a story like that, well that's worth more than the money.

## FX
There are smarter folks than me out there who would say otherwise--but FX is really a tough landscape right now. Tough to have strong views. And even if one did have strong views, I think it's even more difficult to stalk entries in FX, just given how sloppy the markets traded in 2021. I really found the the FX market to be out-of-rhythm this year.

So in a case like this I think it's best to zoom way out and just think about where some currencies are, on a secular long-term valuation basis. 

The dollar is rich. No, it's not as rich as cycle peaks 1985 or 2002. But it is almost certainly a touch rich here, by maybeas much as 10-ish% on a long-term basis. The euro is perhaps a bit cheap. GBP is likely cheaper than the Euro. And the Aussie dollar looking quite inexpensive as well. The yen...hmmm the yen is the Big Question Mark. If I just pull up a monthly bars, multi-decadal, big-brain chart in USDJPY, I look at it and I gotta say a monster, multi-year move is inbound at _some_ point this decade. For now, that move may be in the direction of richer USDJPY, given the trend this year. But just given that on a long term basis the dollar is probably a bit rich, the yen is _maybe_ quite cheap, I'm still inclined to the downside if there is to be a bigger USDJPY move. That may not occur until 2023-2024 if at all, so for now I'd look to see if USDJPY gets cold feet at around a 117 handle.

What could incite such a move in USDJPY, or really the dollar more broadly? Well, intermediate term, taking out the USD rate differntial is one, and if NIRP is ever on the table in the US, then that would sure as hell be a catalyst for a cheaper dollar. I'm also keeping a close eye on the US current account deficit. No one really cares for now, at least compared to the twin deficits hype of the 1980s, or the Roubini-Setser et al. table pound during the early 2000s CA deficit widening. But if we continue to see a widening CA-deficit, with the dollar remaining rich throughout any potential risk-off moves in 2022-2023, the USD would likely go from maybe-rich to definitely-rich, and it'd be time to hunt for big time entries for a trending move to the dowside. 

So the 2022 gameplan in FX is to be patient--perhaps use the FX markets more as indicators for other markets rather than play them directly, especially in the first half of the year. I think in a serious risk-off move, the dollar goes bid for a while, but the Fed has the most room to out-dove any other central bank, so if resumption of QE becomes fair-game, and especially if the once off-limits NIRP comes into play in the US, which if it were to at all would only be a possible narrative _in a serious risk toward end of 2022_, then it may well be time to look for dollar shorts against pretty much anything. 

## Equities

Stocks are rich. You know they're rich, I know they're rich. Market Cap-to-GDP, CAPEs, Tobin's Q, etc--all the indicators that 'fundamental' equity investors love to use to value the broader market on a long term basis are either close to 2000 extremes, or already well-past those all-time rich levels.

Now all those indicators have been rich since basically 2013. And all those fundamental equity investors have seriously underperformed since then as tech has lead the market higher and higher and higher and higher. And now a lot of those fundamental equity investors have had to close up shop. 

As much as those fundamental measures should _not_ be used to trade near-term directionality, and as fun as it is to make fun of value investors on twitter,  I really cannot recommend equities here on any time frame and taking smaller stabs at shorts are now fair game, while keeping rounds in the chamber for short additions is prudent if conditions continue to deteriorate. 
 
Most of the junkiest high flying growth stocks are already beaten down. Longer-term market breadth indicators are more in-line with major market lows than the all-time-highs we currently have in the Spoozitron-500 (and indeed, some are taking this as a positive signal looking for new highs with a constructive reversion in breadth, and certainly a fair view). Cryptos are basically just ponzi-stonks, and those are at a critical point as well, with most off their respective highs. 

I haven't really read much research sell-side or otherwise on 2022 forecasts. But a smattering of one-sentence summary consensus seems to be along the lines of: "Strong growth but a bumpy ride on Fed punchbowl removal." "Vol will be elevated with a more hawkish Fed, but we still like bank stocks." "We're gonna see a healthy 10-15% correction in 2022, but it'll be a dip buy."  "Baseline growth will be good, real yields will go up tho, so ya gotta be careful with financial assets."

Those are all fair views. I guess the main place my view differs that the potential growth deceleration is quite serious, and an _initial_ 10%-15% correction is fair game and would get quickly bot back to within 5% of highs. _But_, given where long-term valuations are, and that a Fed put has likely been re-struck well lower than 15% on Spooz, _plus_ they just seem out of phase with the rate-of-change in real credit growth to be getting this hawkish, any 15% dip that gets bot puts the market in a highly critical state, where really _any_ level becomes in play from there. I'm talking a -25% move into recessionary pricing, -50% major asset liquidation crunch, even a +20 to +30% move on a miraculous and timely dove pivot.  

Now, I'm really trying to keep an open mind here in stonks. Particularly, if we miraculously see an immediate and robust turnaround in credit impulses in Q1 of this year, we could be in a great environment for risk-parity and growth stocks. Because if we enter a  slowing-dull economy after the H2 2021 impulses hit real economy data which would cause central banks to pause the hawkishness, _with_ a return to lower levels of inflation at the same time, with lower rates and an expansion of real liquidity again, that really is the GOAT environment for stonks, and really the GOAT environment performance for financial assets of all kinds. It's tough to beat the everything-rally from the 2020 lows until now. How can multiples expand further, how can assets of all kinds--stonks, bonks, real estonks, continue to be strong? Well that's currently the outcome that I'm fading right now, but given the critical juncture that broader credit impulses and liquidity measures are at, it's certainly a possible, albeit very low probability,  outcome that needs to be on the radar. 

So what am I looking for in equities in 2022? Well for one, I am currently oversized in a semiconductors short that I screwed up on execution when entering and, in poker terms, I am basically triple-barreling on the river with a moderate bluff catcher right now. But I do think smaller sized shorts are within reason here, with pyramiding-up the size on price confirmation and with confirmation in econ data. And--famous last words--I like semi's as a short simply because I see them as a higher-beta QQQ, with gearing to global growth slowdown while also currently at nosebleed valuations. 

Now, you may say that Q's, FAANMGS, ponzi-growth, etc, would outpeform in a slowing-nominal growth environment. Which is fair. But I really see equity market internals as something to keep a super close eye on. _If_, and this is a big if, cyclical oriented value stocks like energy, can outperform tech in a broad risk sell-off and econ growth slowdown--that is something truly salient. And would serve as sign that when liquidty once again becomes available to deploy back into the financial markets, it likely ain't going straight into growth and tech again. It could mean a huge boom for the value underperformers of the last decade. 

So for now, I'm also looking at internals for important warnings. If front-end cyclicals start weakening rapidly relative to the broader market in Q1, and here I'm looking primarly at homebuilders (ITB, LEN, TOL, DHI), auto manufacturers (DAI, F, GM), heavy industrials (XLI, CAT, DE), coupled with a rebound in relative performance of defensives: XLU/SPY, XLP/XLY are a couple of key ratios to monitor, then it would perhaps signal a serious slowdown and/or recession and would serve to add to conviction in any long-fixed income trades as well. 

### Crypto (aka equities low-tier)
And lastly, I count cryptos as the junkiest of risk assets, the ponzi-est of ponzis. And, even though I know this is going to be the kiss of death leading to their turbo-mooning, I hate _hate_ cryptos here at these levels and at these liquidity conditions. When there are Matt Damon ads for Crypto.com or FXI or whatever the fuck he is getting paid to shill, running 20 times per Monday Night Football game, it really is well-past due for the whole ecosystem to get cleared out. After the 2017 ramp, I was open-minded to what crypto might bring from the tech side, but now it's been 4 years, tons of money has entered the space, and it really continues to prove to be strictly _worse_ than current solutions for pretty much every problem it attempts to solve, with the possible exceptions of money-laundering and buying drugs on the internet. It's pretty good for those, which are fair use cases. And for that reason, I can't put out a $0 price target on all crypto. But if liquidity continues to rapidly dissipate from financial markets, 95%+ drawdowns are fair game in crypto. And while it really would be sad, with many retail investors getting hurt and scammed etc, it would be overall good for the space, to free-up a lot of capital for actual things, along with freeing any strong dev talent for actual problems, and really just clear up any of the broad misallocations. And while I try to be open-minded and fair to all sorts of investor views and macro-frameworks and trades, the VCs throwing money at Web3 because they _really_ have nothing left to deploy to, can...well nevermind. But let's just say I hope those fund vintages...underpeform.

## Commodities (and precious metals)

I'm a long-term energy bull. The issues for 2022 are 1.) my baseline view of a substantial growth slowdown, and 2.) a lot of folks are onto the energy thesis and sentiment is quite strong, albeit cooled post-Omicron and with the softening of the nat gas spike both domestically and in Europe. I went through most of this in my previous note, but the calls from sell-side strategy desks and twitter bulls for $100-$120 WTI in 2022 were getting louder. So my view is that it's not time to get completely bulled up on oil as a retirement trade just yet, unless one has already entered in size at lower levels and willing to stomach some vol. 

The fundamentals are obvious at this point. OPEC spare capacity is likely nowhere near 5 mmbpd, and likely closer to 1.5-2.5 mmbpd. 2021 saw the lowest level of new discoveries in decades. In the _best case_ scenario for US production, the Permian can likely grow for a few more years, to above 6mm bpd, but it could also very well peak short of that. And that is while the other major oil basins, notably the Bakken and the Eagleford, have very likely peaked and are about to enter terminal decline.  The capex cycle is extremely favorable for higher prices, as overinvestment in the shale boom 2008-2014 incinerated pretty much any outside capital that was financing the oilpatch and put a long-term stain on the sector, which then lead to the extreme underinvestment in the space we are currently feeling today. And I'm removed from the investment management industry now, but in certain allocator circles, I get the sense ESG has gotten really out of hand and reaching near-unacceptable levels of grift. And while mechanically, I think the impact ESG has on energy names and multiples  is likely marginal in practice, it certainly plays into the narrative for the sector as a whole, simply that a big portion of Wall Street simply won't touch the space anymore. 

Now on to the demand side. There is a very high probability oil demand continues to grow quite robustly outside of the usual cyclical swings for many years to come. Moving on.

And just a note on the gas side. While global gas production can likely grow well into the future, and the 2021 spike was likely a bit overblown on weather fears--that at least through December--never quite materialized, there are some very big question marks about US gas production. There are some calls emerging that we could be very well near peak Marcellus, regardless of pipeline constraints,  and while associated gas production from the Permian could continue to be quite strong, with many Permian wells getting even gassier as they mature, we could see a serious slowdown in US gas production. Could it be a peak--_the_ peak? I don't quite think so--with my primary source being some cursory chart eyeballing. The US could likely continue to grow gas production for a couple decades, especially at higher prices. _BUT_ with gas markets going global, as North America builds out more LNG export capacity and the potential for some chillier winters down the road, there is potential for a truly bananas bull market in North American gas, with the European and Asian markets providing a glimpse of what is possible _in the US gas market itslef_. Now a lot of things have to go right for a big time gas bull market, but the risk/reward is certainly quite favorable, and even just napkin math of super-rich oil, with natty getting closer to a 1:6 pricing ratio on BTU parity, then things could clearly get bonkers in gas.  

As highlighted above, I think it is critical to watch relative performance of Energy names relative to the market, _especially_ in a broad risk-off. If they can hold-up moderately well, even with WTI hitting say..sub-$60, then I think the game changes if central banks turn dovish again and liquidity expands, especially if coupled with a weakening dollar. Excess money could very well flood back into the energy sector in a major way, rather than the current mainstream playbook that QE is everywhere and always a "buy tech and growth hand over fist" trade. But these are all big questions, with lots of moving parts, but fundamentals are so strong in energy that this could be a decade long play, so patience is critical.

Quickly on precious metals. I like them on a long-term basis. This is somewhat coupled with my long-term secular view on oil and gas, which has the potential to hamstring real growth over the longer term, and lead to absolute nosebleed low levels in global real yields. I think the consensus view, not just for 2022, but on a secular basis, is real interest rates are currently stupid low, and largely a product of central bank largesse, and they simply _must_ go higher at some point. But I really am worried about the risks to long-term global growth prospects if instead of a booming 2020s, we see a 2020s of backbreaking energy prices, with rolling supply-side crunches. I hate to reference Roubini _again_, as I largely disagree with his prognostications most of the time, but he had some op-eds out several months back with this view, and I tend to agree that is where the major risks are as a decadal trend. So unfortunately, I have to join him in Doomerville for now. It would certainly decimate the mega-tech trade, while--in a bit of a correlation break--coincide with even _lower_ real interest rates. And therefore, while I worry about the near term outlook for precious metals in the first half of 2021 if liquidity crunch gets serious, it would certainly be a major dip buy, not just in an attempt to front-run an eventual central bank pivot in perhaps late 2022/early 2023, but also as a secular trade for serious upside in precious metals on the risk of rolling supply-side crunches well into the late 2020s.