---
layout: post
title:  "A view of Q42021"
subtitle: "A rambling look into year-end. Fading the move in energy. Scooping up some yen. And why 2022 won't be 2008 (but could be like 2011)"
date:   2021-10-09 08:30:20 -0500
categories: [Markets, Trading, Investing]
---

I see some potential for chop and cosolidation. Thank you, and please tune in next quarter for my ever-changing views.

Alright, but on the real, I took a whirlwind look around markets and while I do think Q4 will be pretty boring overall, some markets are at some potentially interesting levels, where we could see some inflection points forming, with setup for fireworks into 2022. If we really are setting up for bigger moves in 2022, these types of turning points could take a couple months to sort out, which is what Q42021 would be for.

A summary:
- Be very patient with entering new risk in Q42021, with a view toward risk-off biases for 2022
- Sell USDJPY with very tight stops above 113, target sub-100.
- Wait for price confirmation to buy 2025 eurodollars (~respects support roughly 98.10 EDZ5)
- Look for shorting opportunities in semis's late in the year.
- Don't be afraid to tactically fade energy. Sell WTI if it stalls at $83, keep an eye out for price revisiting mid-$50s next year. 
- If bullish energy long-term, look to play the curve rather than with outrights or with equities. Consider -22/+23 trades in WTI for backwardation to get taken out of the curve, or -M22/+M24 HH for a deeper fade of the current winter spike into a flattening of the longer-dated futures.

We'll start with what was likely the most important macro narrative of 2021 and what may continue to drive price action through year-end. China is a mess and the PBoC needs to start easing more aggressively. And I think they will. We've all forgotten by now, but [they cut RRR in July](https://www.reuters.com/business/chinas-surprise-rrr-cut-gets-markets-pondering-rate-cuts-other-easing-2021-07-14/), and since then we've seen only further deterioration in Chinese markets coupled with languishing economic data. The China-Tech decimation and Evergrande mess are all just symptoms of the PBoC remaining too tight. 

There have been a lot of ill-conceived comparisons of Evergrande to Lehman, with the same hand-waving about shadow-banking and hidden leverage, (only now in 2021 [stablecoins could somehow be involved](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/09/21/evergrande-crisis-could-drag-down-tether-and-other-cryptocurrencies.html), whatever those are). *But*, there is one important similarity between Evergrande and Lehman--and that is central banks could choose to render it a non-issue overnight if they so choose. Unfortunately in the case of Lehman, the FOMC [chose to make it an issue](https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/monetary20080916a.htm). And after keeping FF's at 2.0% at the September 2008 meeting, they started paying IOR 3 weeks later. And remember, this was all after the ECB [hiked](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/pressconf/2008/html/is080703.en.html) at near ATH oil prices earlier in the summer. 

Now, Evergrande is not Lehman and 2021 is not 2008. But 2021 could be a little like late-2010/early 2011. We'll expand on this comparison, but to first close the loop on China: I think the risk-reward is tilted to getting ahead of potential PBoC easing in Q421/Q122. If one is inclined to go dumpster-diving in some Chinese names, we're at levels where it's not the worst idea. I wouldn't enter with a long-term view, but if you wanted to just try to scoop up some reversion points from oversold levels or perhaps try an expression of the long Chinese Tech/short US Tech pair trade that everyone got smoked out of this summer, we're at decent levels, especially after last week's encouraging price action in some of these Chinese names.

Let's touch on why 2021 is not 2008. We're seeing a curious spike in calls that we are in an [energy crisis](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-09-27/europe-s-energy-crisis-is-about-to-go-global-as-gas-prices-soar). And maybe Europe and the UK are at crisis levels. They may see actual, phyiscal shortages of natural gas this winter. It really could be quite bad. But I also can't speak with much certainity--simply because I don't live in Europe. I live in Texas. And believe me, I was gonna research some more into their situation this afternoon, but  it turns out I'm gonna be busy running the dishwasher, doing several loads of laundry, cooking dinner with all the burners and the microwave running in the kitchen simultaneously, all with my AC turned to 65 because I prefer it nice and mild. 

That was in poor taste. But really here in the US, at winter *2022* HH strip all [below $4.50](https://www.cmegroup.com/markets/energy/natural-gas/natural-gas.quotes.html) and front-month WTI kissing $80 only briefly and still with a [deeply backwardated curve](https://www.cmegroup.com/markets/energy/crude-oil/light-sweet-crude.quotes.html), we are *far, far* from an energy *crisis*. Now, I'm as big of a long-term energy bull as anyone--I basically moved to Texas partly as an expression of that. But at current levels--and...uh, let's just say [energy sentiment feeling closer to a local top](https://twitter.com/Jkylebass/status/1445013121874210821)--this isn't a time to panic about a full-tilt energy-induced recession. But it is time to worry just a little bit, given what central banks are likely to do into next year coupled with some of the YoY comps we have in energy prices.

I saw a tweet the other day from a trader claiming how ridiculous it is that we are talking about an oil-price induced recession, claiming real rates are what really matter. In one sense, he was right. Energy crises only have deep *recessionary* implications when they induce central bank to make mistakes. But that doesn't mean oil prices are entirely meaningless to growth slowdoesn. Recall Trichet hiked in 2008, and hiked *twice* in 2011 with oil back over $100. And look at the YoY change in headline inflation in 2008, 2000, 1990 (1st Gulf War spike), 1980, 1974 all while central banks had a bias to tighten. In the *best case* scenario, the Fed (for which I really mean global central banks) eases into an oil shock, just enough to stabilize nominal GDP. And stable NGDP in this case implies low real growth, with elevated headline inflation. Obviously not a great macro environment, but in this best-case scenario to an oil-shock, things would just suck for a while--then we'd be fine.

The main issue here is central banks don't like to ease into an oil shock, they like to tighten. (And ironically, Bernanke himself laid this out the problems this can cause in a [1997 paper](https://www.brookings.edu/bpea-articles/systematic-monetary-policy-and-the-effects-of-oil-price-shocks/).) And that's where we are today, even after a [weak/mixed headline NFP print last Friday](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/september-jobs-report-labor-department-hiring-covid-2021-191337923.html), consensus seems to still be a green-light for a [November Taper](https://www.wsj.com/articles/jobs-report-keeps-fed-taper-on-track-for-november-11633700960). Again, this isn't 2008. But going ahead with tapering now could kneecap growth and yield a 2011-style risk-off sometime next year. 

Really, much of this is meta-level pontification that should be laid out in separate posts. So let's get to some markets, levels, and maybe even some trades. I read sentiment as bearish rates. I'd like to be long into next year, but I wouldn't go knife-catching in bonds here. It seems rates market sentiment like flatteners, either because we all know that after a taper comes hikes, or if there were to be a bid to duration, it'll be concentrated in the long-end. So if I were to pick a part of the curve, I think a broad risk-off move would be a bull-steepener, with hiking premium in the 2024-2026-ish range getting yoinked out first, with the long-end lagging in such a move. I'm keeping an eye EDZ5 as my pet eurodollar contract. I think it could briefly breach 98.00, but it'd catch my attention if it can regain and hold 98.10. A more serious risk-off next year could provide enought fuel a move back into the high 98s in my view.

And if there is to be a risk-off move in rates, it's also important to consider other risk-off alternatives, including everyone's favorite currency pair that doesn't move anymore: USDJPY. While the yen has moved pretty closely with rate differentials this year, I think it's potentially at decent levels where risk/reward is favorable to try some knife-catching in the yen. And as risk-off hedge, being short USDJPY may potentially offer more juice than just being long US duration. FX vol is [low](https://www.reuters.com/business/dollar-finds-footing-traders-wait-inflation-numbers-2021-06-08/#:~:text=With%20recent%20trading%20channels%20tight,down%200.2%25%20on%20the%20day), so there's probably some high convexity, low theta option structure that can be formed here. But just considering levels in a simple delta-one trade for now, it's already at a good spot to take a stab with very tight stops just above 113, with potential for a broader downside move *well* below 100 sometime by mid-next year.

What does this all mean for equities? Well, near-term, I think we re-visit, and slightly break new ATHs in US majors. Unfortunately, my read is that everyone is itching to sell into such a bounce. That said, I'd sell into such a bounce. But that doesn't change my long-term view that US stocks are really...not a good buy-and-hold here. I know this a view held by many--including some of the more crank-ery types in the investment landscape. This is dumb of me to say, but if I were unlevered, retirement-style or even big real money accouunt, I'd be 100% out of all US major indices here. Then I'd throw in a 2100 bid in the Spooz (yes, 2100 bid) and hope I get filled sometime in 2024-2027. It really is true, the longer-term risk-reward in US equities is just awful. For a more tactical, 2022-mini-Fed-mistake-global-growth slowdown trade in equities, I guess I'd just look for shorting opps in semi's. To throw out a level, I wouldn't considering pulling the trigger unless SMH is somehow back above 270 late in November/December.